#summary How to use this program.
#labels Featured,Phase-Support

== Introduction ==

This program is aimed to ease analysis of blot images.


== User Interface ==

There are three major tabs:
  * *Image* is where you can see the blot image.
  * *Canvas* is a space where you can inspect the blot image.
  * *Console* is a output place.
Commonly used functions are put in the toolbars. Others are in the menus.


== Analysis ==

=== Simply put ===

  * Load an image
  * Designate the sampling area
  * Inspect and modify the sampling area
  * Get the data


=== On the right hand side of *Image* tab ===
  * In *View* page: tune the zooming of the displayed image.
  * In *Grid* page: draw a grid of circles to define sampling area. Each circle should match to a blot. StartX/Y is the coordinate of the center of top-left dot. EndX/Y is the bottom-right's. To get the coordinates, simply click on the image, and the information will show in the status bar. You can rotate the grid clock-wise around the StartX/Y point, by modifying "CW angle".
  * If the image has overlapped or damaged parts within the sampling area just defined, go to *Refine* page. This tool is used to modify the sampling area by carving out unwanted parts. Currently only polygon shaped tool is implemented. Select "Polygon", single clicks on the image designate the polygon path; a double click ends a polygon. (The polygon will not show until you double click) If you made a mistake, the last added polygon can be canceled, through menua "Image" > "Clear last refinement".
  * _(Before background subtraction, you might like to inspect the image in "Canvas" view first)_ The *Background Subtraction* is still under consideration. Currently, it simply deducts the minimal value of a selected area from the whole image. From the menu or toolbar, click "Select bg range". And consequently click the top-left and bottom-right points of the area you want in the image. Tune them in the panel, as Start/End X/y. The "Max" and "Min" will show the information. Use "Subtract bg" in menu or toolbar to execute the operation.
  * The whole refined sampling area could be saved as a mask on the being-processed image for later reference. Use "Save mask" and "Load mask" to achieve this.

=== In *Canvas* tab, each pixel of the image will be presented in the space with its gray scale value as its Z-coordinate. This view is to help inspect the image. ===
  * The green dots, and red if there is any, present the pixels. Red dots are the pixels hitting the boundary values of a gray scale image (brightest and darkest color this image format can present). These dots suggest this image might be over-exposed, and some information might be lost.
  * You can navigate in the canvas (better try out yourself):
    * Drag mouse with left-button down: to look at different places.
    * Drag mouse with right-button down: to move horizontally.
    * Mouse wheel: to move up and down.
    * The "Option" page on the right allows you to change mouse sensitivity and the scaling of the image.
  * After you click "Apply mask", only the sampling regions are shown here.
  * With partitioned regions, toggle "Show average" will show/hide the average of each sample as a white stick. The "Show average" will automatically trigger "Calculate average", which will print out the average values in Console.
  * "Ortho view" will disable the perspective effects, so that the lengths of average sticks can be compared visually. "Look down Z" allows you to look down z-axis. "Reset view" would be helpful if you are lost in the space.

=== *Console* tab will provide textual information. ===

  * After loading an image, some information about the image will be logged here.
  * The result of average calculation is shown here, in a CSV-compliant format. It means copy it and save it with .csv suffix will allow a spreadsheet application to open it. The output is transposed. Assuming input image is arranged as:

||     ||  K  ||  I  || ... ||
||  -5 ||  x  ||  x  || ... ||
||  -4 ||  x  ||  x  || ... ||
|| ... || ... || ... || ... ||

    the output will be as:

||     ||  -5 ||  -4 || ... ||
||  K  ||  x  ||  x  || ... ||
||  I  ||  x  ||  x  || ... ||
|| ... || ... || ... || ... ||

    which would be more handy in spreadsheet applications.
  * Or you can get PSPM (position specific probability matrix) CSV file directly from menu "Console" > "Export PSPM". This is also in a transposed format just described. 